---
title: "wuthering heights"
date: "2021-01-27"
---

1/27/2020

I just finished the novel today, and here are a couple of my thoughts about the novel. 

First, I think the air of the novel is something I can understand why it is considered “great”. In isolation, none of the scenes are particularly entrancing, yet together, they formulate an eerie, dark romantic, fantastical air that feels deep-rooted in your internal psyche. Whether this (I  would say) archetype-ish scene is one I’ve formulated as a consequence of my upbringings (after being fed popular culture novelties like gothic vampire, dracula, or that general vibe), or maybe it’s just a subconscious fantasy that all people naturally have. 

Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff fall deeply in love with one another once Healthcliff is adopted into the family. I didn’t quite understand the notion of love in this novel- it seemed so easy, so unbreaking the love bond between two characters. Catherine (first generation) seems to fall for every man she meets that she forms a relationship with, that is similar in age (ofcourse, besides her own brother). These bonds are not fragile either. She loves Healthcliff even despite his hostility and terrible temperament. 

It’s confusing-, why are the characters so soundly and resolutely in love? Catherine and Healthcliff are similar enough in their twisted and dark nature, but why are all the characters so devoted to their loved ones???. Edger Linton, for one, is arguably just as loving of Catherine that Healhcliff is, and Hindley is also in love with his former wife. Isabelle is head over heels over Healthcliff, in spite of the warnings from all she has loved with her whole life: Catherine, Edger, and Ellen Dean. It is only when Healthcliff absolutely abuses Isabella again and again when Isabella truly distances herself, and vows to hate him. In fact, the only character, Catherine the II, that truly distances herself from completely tripping over “love” ends up the most happy. She is not completely ruined at Linton’s death, nor did she ever regard Linton more heavily than her own father. Perhaps Catherine II is the true beacon and model that Bronte attempts to portray. 

To Emily Bronte, does she perceive love as silly and ridiculous or does she genuinely believe in the enticing power and draw of being in love? The only couple that ends up happily “in love” ends to be Cathy and Hareton, whom neither fell in true desperation for one another. Their love was mutual, but distant. It grew out of an idle loneliness that consummated both of their lives, and they found company in one another not out of a soul-deep connection, but because they could not help their circumstances in other ways. In a way, I find it hard to believe that the true, self-less, and soul-bounding love that Bronte so easily flourishes and gives away exists in the real world, yet it can be explained away by my naivety. Perhaps, the modern hookup culture and encouragement of “self-worth”, “independence”, and a self-created barriers against of emotional vulnerability only extinguishes the notion of true love, even if that notion was man-made and cemented only by popular stories and society. 

Speaking of strong feelings, the entire of novel was so strong in emotions. Love, hate and no in between. All characters hardly had mild feelings towards one another, except for perhaps the narrator and the maid. Heathcliff arguably felt the strongest, but his emotions and hatred led him to the derision of his own revenge and goals and causes his death. I’m not sure if death here would symbolize the extinguishment of the physical agony that emotions cause, or a stronger encouragement that those emotions may finally drive them to their destination: death. 

The entire novel is so removed from reality that while I cannot deny that it is impossible to occur, it is so far distant from any distinct trace of what my reality is like that I feel as if I cannot ever imagine it as applicable in my day-to-day life. It’s a figment of imagination. Yet, imagination is borne out of a semblance to real life. I wonder what motives and messages caused Bronte to write such a novel??
